*The content on this page is written in Chinese, and then traslated into English by machine. More accurate traslations are welcome at: [https://github.com/wa-lang/man/tree/master/en](https://github.com/wa-lang/man/tree/master/en)*

***Ending's law: "Any application that can be compiled to WebAssembly, will be compiled to WebAssembly eventually."***

## 4.1. Function call

We have come across many functions in previous chapters, such as the commonly used built-in printing function `println`. The general syntax for function calls is:

`FunctionName (actual parameter list)`

`Actual parameters` refer to the parameters actually passed in when the function is called, corresponding to the `formal parameters` defined when the function is declared. The formal parameters are only valid within the function body. When calling a function in Wa-lang, parameters are passed by value. Changes to the formal parameter values within the function body will not affect the actual parameter values, for example:

```wa
// 版权 @2023 凹语言 作者。保留所有权利。

func Double(i: i32) => i32 {
    i = i * 2
    return i
}

func main {
    j: i32 = 42
    println(Double(j)) // 84
    println(j)         // 42
}
```

The keyword `return` is used to exit the function and return values. The general syntax is:
```wa
return ValueList
```

If a function has multiple return values, they should be separated by `,`, for example:

```wa
func MulRet() => (i32, i32) {
    return 42, 13
}
```

Similar to formal parameters, named return values can be defined when a function is declared, for example:
```wa
func showAnswer() => (answer: i32) {
    answer = 42
    return
}
```

This is equivalent to:
```wa
func showAnswer() => i32 {
    answer: i32
    answer = 42
    return answer
}
```

Like other variables, named return values are initialized with a value of 0. If a function witch has many branches needs to return an error code, and most branch error codes have a value of 0, using a named return value can simplify the code.

Even if a named return value is declared, `return` can still return other values, such as:
```wa
// 版权 @2019 凹语言 作者。保留所有权利。

func showAnswer() => (answer: i32) {
    answer = 13
    return 42
}

func main {
    println(showAnswer()) // 42
}
```

So we can understand it this way: the named return value actually defines a set of local variables in the function body. When the `return` statement within the function does not specify a return value, this set of local variables is automatically filled in as the return value.