*The content on this page is written in Chinese, and then traslated into English by machine. More accurate traslations are welcome at: [https://github.com/wa-lang/man/tree/master/en](https://github.com/wa-lang/man/tree/master/en)*

## 7.4. Other features of interface

When declaring an interface, the interface's method set can contain another interface, for example:
```wa
type I1 interface {
    f1()
}

type I2 interface {
    I1
    f2()
}
```

Using this form, the compiler will copy the methods of interface `I1` to the method set of `I2`, which is equivalent to directly adding `f1()` to the method set of `I2`.

If the method set of interface `I2` is a true superset of the method set of interface `I1`, we say that "compared with I1, I2 is a small interface". This statement seems a bit counter-intuitive, but its internal logic is: the interface is For method contracts, since there are more methods in `I2`, the set of types that satisfy `I2` must be a subset of the set of types that satisfy `I1`. From this perspective, the empty interface (`interface{}`) is the largest interface. The more methods contained in a non-empty interface, the smaller the interface tends to be.

We can also declare anonymous interface values. Anonymous interfaces are similar to anonymous structures in all aspects. They are located in the global namespace (can be used across modules).

Interface calls are slightly slower than direct calls from concrete types, so there is no need to create an interface for behavior (or set of methods) that only one type satisfies.

Interface values are comparable. Two non-nil interface values `i1` and `i2` are equal only if the following conditions are met (that is, the expression `i1==i2` is `true`):
- The concrete type of `i1` is the same as the concrete type of `i2`, and the types are comparable
- The concrete value of `i1` is equal to the concrete value of `i2`